---
title: Getting Started
navigation: true
icon: material-symbols:home
---

## Welcome to the WiCAN docs

> These docs assume you are running the latest version of the WiCAN Firmware, please make sure you
> keep your firmware up to date. See the [Firmware Update](config/firmware-update) page for
> instructions on how to do this.

## Getting Started

Before starting take a minute and see if your vehicle is one of the [community supported vehicles](config/automate/supported_vehicles).
If your vehicle is listed, you will be able to use a configuration provided by the community to get
started quickly.

If your vehicle is not listed, don't worry! You can still use the WiCAN with your vehicle, but you
will need to configure the WiCAN to work with your vehicle and create a vehicle profile with any custom PIDs which is described in [New Vehicle Profile](config/automate/new_vehicle_profiles).

Now that you have your WiCAN, plug into your vehicle's OBDII port and let's get started!

### Network Configuration

While your WiCAN supports Bluetooth and WiFi, out of the box it is configured to use WiFi. Please
refer to the [WiFi](config/wifi) page for detailed instructions on configuring your network
settings.

Once you have configured your WiFi settings, you can connect to the device using its local network
IP or the mDNS name `wican.local` to complete the rest of the configuration.

### CAN Configuration

There are a variety of ways to use your WiCAN each of which has its own set of instructions. In the
Settings Menu, is where you configure the [WiCAN's CAN settings](config/can) to work with each
application. Each of the pages below will show you how to configure the WiCAN for the specific
application you are using.

- Desktop Applications
  - [BUSMASTER](busmaster/usage)
  - [SavvyCAN](savvycan/usage)
  - [SocketCAN](socketcan/usage)
- [Home Assistant](home-assistant/)
- Mobile Apps
  - [Car Scanner](car_scanner/usage)
  - [RealDash](realdash/usage)
- [MQTT](mqtt/usage)

### Vehicle Specific Configuration - Automate

The Automate Tab is where you can configure all your vehicle specific settings including Vehicle
Profile, Custom PIDs and Standard PIDs.

The vehicle profile tells the WiCAN how to communicate with your vehicle, and the data which is
available over your vehicle's OBDII port, these are called PIDs (Parameter IDs).

If your vehicle is not listed in the [community supported vehicles](config/automate/supported_vehicles)
or if you need to add PIDs for your vehicle, you will need to create a vehicle profile, follow the
[New Vehicle Profile](config/automate/new_vehicle_profiles) guide.

If your vehicle is listed, you can select the vehicle model from the drop down list as described in
the [Automate](config/automate/usage) page.

## Contributing

These docs are very new, and definitely still a work in progress. Feel free to help out and migrate
helpful content from the main README.md, and various issues/discussions all in here to get them in
in a central place. Check out out the [contributing](/contributing) page on how to add and update
these docs.

## Next Steps

Now that you are familiar with the basics, here are some other areas to explore:

- The [Automation](config/automate/usage) feature enables you to periodically request one or more
  PIDs from your vehicle's ECU.
- The [CAN over MQTT](mqtt/usage) feature allows you to integrate your WiCAN with MQTT brokers for
  enhanced communication.
